# Code Book for tidy data set
Getting and Cleaning Data - Course Project

### Introduction 

This is the code book for the **tidydataset.txt** file that was generated by the **run_analysis.R** script. For the deail of the script, please refer to **README.md** file. 

This file contains 68 varialbes add 180 observations. The first 2 variables, Subject and Activity represent people and activities respectively and the rest of the variables represents the summary, either mean or standard deviation, of the features of the mean or deviation that were originally measured from the accelerometers from Samsung Galaxy S smartphone on the wrist for all combinations of Subjects and Activities.  

The measurements were collected from 30 people and 6 activiies, therefore 30 x 6 = 180 observations. The original data set contains 7352 training data and 2947 test data for 561 measurements, which was obtained from the following URL: 

https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip 

For more information about this dataset contact: activityrecognition@smartlab.ws

### Variable Names and Descriptions

Variable names and their short descriptions are described. Except first 2 variables *Subject* and *Activity*, the following nameing convention is used for the variable names: 

* t: Time domain signals (prefix 't' to denote time) were captured at a constant rate of 50 Hz. 
* f: Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) (prefix 'f" to donate fast fourier transform")
* Body: Data/signal obtained from body
* Acc: Data from accelerometer, unit is standard gravity units 'g'
* Gravity: Data/signal obtained from grabity, 
* Jerk: Derived data obtained from body linear acceleration and angular velocity 
* Gyro: Data from gyroscope, unit is radians/second
* Mag: Magnitude calcuated using the Euclidean norm
* X: X axis direction movement
* Y: Y axis direction movement
* Z: Z axis direciton movement 
* mean: Mean value
* std: Standard Deviation 

*Subject*:

    This is the numbers from 1 to 30 that represents poeple who particiated the measurements.

*Activity*: 

    This represents the activiteis measured for each people. The following 6 activites are measured: 

    1. WALKING
    2. WALKING_UPSTAIRS
    3. WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS
    4. SITTING
    5. STANDING
    6. LAYING

*tBodyAcc.mean...X*:       (unit: standard gravity units 'g') 

    This represents the mean of the accelerometer measurment for X direction obtaiend from body.

*tBodyAcc.mean...Y*:       (unit: standard gravity units 'g')  

    This represents the mean of the accelerometer measurment for Y direction obtaiend from body.

*tBodyAcc.mean...Z":"       (unit: standard gravity units 'g')      

    This represents the mean of the accelerometer measurment for Z direction obtaiend from body.

*tBodyAcc.std...X*:        (unit: standard gravity units 'g') 

    This represents the standard deviaiton of the accelerometer measurment for X direction obtaiend from body.

*tBodyAcc.std...Y*:        (unit: standard gravity units 'g') 

    This represents the standard deviaiton of the accelerometer measurment for Y direction obtaiend from body.

*tBodyAcc.std...Z*:        (unit: standard gravity units 'g')  
    
    This represents the standard deviaiton of the accelerometer measurment for Z direction obtaiend from body.

*tGravityAcc.mean...X*:    (unit: standard gravity units 'g') 

    This represents the mean of the accelerometer measurment for X direction obtaiend from gravity.

*tGravityAcc.mean...Y*:    (unit: standard gravity units 'g')  

    This represents the mean of the accelerometer measurment for Y direction obtaiend from gravity.

*tGravityAcc.mean...Z*:    (unit: standard gravity units 'g')  

    This represents the mean of the accelerometer measurment for Z direction obtaiend from gravity.

*tGravityAcc.std...X*:     (unit: standard gravity units 'g')    

    This represents the standard deviation of the accelerometer measurment for X direction obtaiend from gravity.

*tGravityAcc.std...Y*:     (unit: standard gravity units 'g') 

    This represents the standard deviation of the accelerometer measurment for Y direction obtaiend from gravity.

*tGravityAcc.std...Z*:     (unit: standard gravity units 'g')   

    This represents the standard deviation of the accelerometer measurment for Z direction obtaiend from gravity.

*tBodyAccJerk.mean...X*:   (unit: standard gravity units 'g')  

    This represents the mean of the measurement for X direction derived from liner acceleration and angular velocity from body.

*tBodyAccJerk.mean...Y*:   (unit: standard gravity units 'g') 

    This represents the mean of the measurement for Y direction derived from liner acceleration and angular velocity from body.

*tBodyAccJerk.mean...Z*:   (unit: standard gravity units 'g')  

    This represents the mean of the measurement for Z direction derived from liner acceleration and angular velocity from body.

*tBodyAccJerk.std...X*:    (unit: standard gravity units 'g') 

    This represents the standard deviation of the measurement for X direction derived from liner acceleration and angular velocity from body.

*tBodyAccJerk.std...Y*:    (unit: standard gravity units 'g') 

    This represents the standard deviation of the measurement for Y direction derived from liner acceleration and angular velocity from body.

*tBodyAccJerk.std...Z*:    (unit: standard gravity units 'g') 

    This represents the standard deviation of the measurement for Z direction derived from liner acceleration and angular velocity from body.

*tBodyGyro.mean...X*:      (unit: radians/second) 

    This represents the mean of the measurement of the gyroscope for X direction from body.

*tBodyGyro.mean...Y*:      (unit: radians/second)  

    This represents the mean of the measurement of the gyroscope for Y direction from body.

*tBodyGyro.mean...Z*:      (unit: radians/second)      

    This represents the mean of the measurement of the gyroscope for Z direction from body.

*tBodyGyro.std...X*:       (unit: radians/second)  

    This represents the standard deviation of the measurement of the gyroscope for X direction from body.

*tBodyGyro.std...Y*:       (unit: radians/second) 

    This represents the standard deviation of the measurement of the gyroscope for Y direction from body.

*tBodyGyro.std...Z*:       (unit: radians/second)  

    This represents the standard deviation of the measurement of the gyroscope for Z direction from body.

*tBodyGyroJerk.mean...X*:  (unit: radians/second)  

    This represents the mean of the measurement for X direction derived from gyroscope and angular velocity from body.

*tBodyGyroJerk.mean...Y*:  (unit: radians/second)  

    This represents the mean of the measurement for Y direction derived from gyroscope and angular velocity from body.

*tBodyGyroJerk.mean...Z*:  (unit: radians/second)   

    This represents the mean of the measurement for Z direction derived from gyroscope and angular velocity from body.

*tBodyGyroJerk.std...X*:   (unit: radians/second)   

    This represents the standard deviation of the measurement for X direction derived from gyroscope and angular velocity from body.

*tBodyGyroJerk.std...Y*:   (unit: radians/second)   

    This represents the standard deviation of the measurement for Y direction derived from gyroscope and angular velocity from body.

*tBodyGyroJerk.std...Z*:   (unit: radians/second)   

    This represents the standard deviation of the measurement for Z direction derived from gyroscope and angular velocity from body.

*tBodyAccMag.mean..*:      (unit: standard gravity units 'g')    

    This represents the mean of the magnitude calculated from accelerometer from body.

*tBodyAccMag.std..*:       (unit: standard gravity units 'g')  

    This represents the standard deviaiton of the magnitude calculated from accelerometer from body.

*tGravityAccMag.mean..*:   (unit: standard gravity units 'g')  

    This represents the mean of the magnitude calculated from gravity, accelerometer.

*tGravityAccMag.std..*:    (unit: standard gravity units 'g')   

    This represents the standard deviation the magnitude calculated from gravity, accelerometer.

*tBodyAccJerkMag.mean..*:  (unit: standard gravity units 'g')  

    This represents the mean of the the magnitude calculated from accelermeter and angular velocity from body.

*tBodyAccJerkMag.std..*:   (unit: standard gravity units 'g')   

    This represents the standard deviation of the the magnitude calculated from accelermeter and angular velocity from body.

*tBodyGyroMag.mean..*:     (unit: radians/second)  

    This represents the mean of the magnitude calcualted from gyroscope from body.

*tBodyGyroMag.std..*:      (unit: radians/second)   

    This represents the standrd deviation of the magnitude calcualted from gyroscope from body.

*tBodyGyroJerkMag.mean..*: (unit: radians/second)  

    This represents the mean of the magnitude calcualted from gyroscope and angular velocity from body.

*tBodyGyroJerkMag.std..*:  (unit: radians/second)   

    This represents the standard deviation of the magnitude calcualted from gyroscope and angular velocity from body.

*fBodyAcc.mean...X*:       (unit: standard gravity units 'g')     

    This represents the mean of the accelerometer measurment that was applied FFT for X direction obtaiend from body.

*fBodyAcc.mean...Y*:       (unit: standard gravity units 'g')  

    This represents the mean of the accelerometer measurment that was applied FFT for Y direction obtaiend from body.

*fBodyAcc.mean...Z*:       (unit: standard gravity units 'g') 

    This represents the mean of the accelerometer measurment that was applied FFT for Z direction obtaiend from body.

*fBodyAcc.std...X*:        (unit: standard gravity units 'g')   

    This represents the standard deviaiton of the accelerometer measurment that was applied FFT for X direction obtaiend from body.

*fBodyAcc.std...Y*:        (unit: standard gravity units 'g')   

    This represents the standard deviaiton of the accelerometer measurment that was applied FFT for Y direction obtaiend from body.

*fBodyAcc.std...Z*:        (unIt: standard gravity units 'g')      

    This represents the standard deviaiton of the accelerometer measurment that was applied FFT for Z direction obtaiend from body.

*fBodyAccJerk.mean...X*:   (unit: standard gravity units 'g')    

    This represents the mean of the measurement that was applied FFT for X direction derived from liner acceleration and angular velocity from body.

*fBodyAccJerk.mean...Y*:   (unit: standard gravity units 'g')      

    This represents the mean of the measurement that was applied FFT for Y direction derived from liner acceleration and angular velocity from body.

*fBodyAccJerk.mean...Z*:   (unit: standard gravity units 'g')      

    This represents the mean of the measurement that was applied FFT for Z direction derived from liner acceleration and angular velocity from body.

*fBodyAccJerk.std...X*:    (unit: standard gravity units 'g')      

    This represents the standard deviation of the measurement that was applied FFT for X direction derived from liner acceleration and angular velocity from body.

*fBodyAccJerk.std...Y*:    (unit: standard gravity units 'g')    

    This represents the standard deviation of the measurement that was applied FFT for Y direction derived from liner acceleration and angular velocity from body.

*fBodyAccJerk.std...Z*:    (unit: standard gravity units 'g')    

    This represents the standard deviation of the measurement that was applied FFT for Z direction derived from liner acceleration and angular velocity from body.

*fBodyGyro.mean...X*:      (unit: radians/second)      

    This represents the mean of the measurement of the gyroscope that was applied FFT for X direction from body.

*fBodyGyro.mean...Y*:      (unit: radians/second)  

    This represents the mean of the measurement of the gyroscope that was applied FFT for Y direction from body.

*fBodyGyro.mean...Z*:      (unit: radians/second)      

    This represents the mean of the measurement of the gyroscope that was applied FFT for Z direction from body.

*fBodyGyro.std...X*:       (unit: radians/second)  

    This represents the standard deviation of the measurement of the gyroscope that was applied FFT for X direction from body.

*fBodyGyro.std...Y*:       (unit: radians/second)    

    This represents the standard deviation of the measurement of the gyroscope that was applied FFT for Y direction from body.

*fBodyGyro.std...Z*:       (unit: radians/second) 

    This represents the standard deviation of the measurement of the gyroscope that was applied FFT for Y direction from body.

*fBodyAccMag.mean..*:      (unit: standard gravity units 'g')  

    This represents the mean of the magnitude that was applied FFT calcualted from gyroscope from body.

*fBodyAccMag.std..*:       (unit: standard gravity units 'g')   

    This represents the standard deviation of the magnitude that was applied FFT calcualted from gyroscope from body.

*fBodyBodyAccJerkMag.mean..*:  (unit: standard gravity units 'g')  

    This represents the mean of the the magnitude that was applied FFT from accelermeter and angular velocity from body.

*fBodyBodyAccJerkMag.std..*:   (unit: standard gravity units 'g')  

    This represents the standard deviation of the the magnitude that was applied FFT from accelermeter and angular velocity from body.

*fBodyBodyGyroMag.mean..*:     (unit: radians/second)    

    This represent the mean of the magnitude applied FFT from gyroscope from body.

*fBodyBodyGyroMag.std..*:      (unit: radians/second)  

    This represent the standard deviation of the magnitude applied FFT from gyroscope from body.

*fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag.mean..*: (unit: radians/second)   

    This represent the mean of the magnitude applied FFT from gyroscope and jerk signal from body.

*fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag.std..*:  (unit: radians/second) 

    This represent the standard deviation of the magnitude applied FFT from gyroscope and jerk signal from body.
